---
title: Adaptive Immunity
date: 2023-01-05 12:00:00 -500
categories: [pbl]
tags: [imig]
---

Normal physiology
What is the normal physiology of the adaptive immune response? 
What are the different antibody classes (IgE, IgG, IgA, IgD, and IgM) and what are their unique roles in the normal immune response? 
Which are transmitted via breast milk? Which can cross the placenta?

Pathophysiology
Pathophysiology of common genetic immunoglobulin deficiencies
Bruton’s agammaglobulinemia?
Immunoglobulin A deficiency? 
High IgM Syndrome
Most common immunoglobulin deficiencies
Genetic inheritance of a genetic immunoglobulin deficiency? 
What are the primary genes involved in genetic immunoglobulin deficiency? 
 CD40LG gene
What are the primary antibody abnormalities present in genetic immunoglobulin deficiencies?
How might a mutation in a gene that is primarily expressed in T-cells cause a disease of severe immunoglobulin deficiency? 
What are the most common infections that people with immunoglobulin deficiencies are susceptible to? Does this vary with the Ig that is deficient?
Streptococcus pneumoniae


Diagnosis and Treatment
Differentials for an 8 mo old with… 
Repeated ear infections
Chronic diarrhea
Pneumonia - Cough, SOB, High fever
Dehydration - Low urination, depressed fontanelle, increased capillary refill
What is a depressed fontanelle and what does it indicate?
Significance of underdeveloped tonsils
Common infections spread through daycares? 
H&P for genetic immunoglobulin deficiencies? (how might you identify this issue?)
Diagnostics of immunoglobulin deficiency
Quantitative serum immunoglobulin levels (IgG, IgA, IgE, and IgM)
Serum-specific antibody titers in response to known immunizations
Treatments for Immunoglobulin deficiencies? 
Immunoglobulin replacement therapy (how does it work?)
Adjustments that minimize exposure to bacteria
